# Trivia game
This a trivia game designed to improve memorization and make learning fun.
For my project, I developed a trivia game designed to improve memorization and make learning fun. I love jeopardy and quiz games. I enjoyed playing them as a child with my family. These games were not only fun, but educational as well. This led me to want to build a game similar to that for this project. I wanted to incorporate all the functionalities I enjoy in the game to make it as enjoyable for other users as it was for me. To play the game, players can load a file containing questions and answers. Then, the program will go through the file line by line, and will identify the questions and answers by finding the position of the question mark. It will then store the questions and their respective answers in a dictionary. This program includes username tracking. This programs asks the players to enter their username and stores it in another file, along with their scores. Returning players are welcomed back and are told what their previous high score is. Meanwhile, new players are registered and their username is added to the file for future reference. Players can choose from different categories such as capitals, history, food and science. The user is presented with the different categories and the number corresponding to each one. The player will then choose the category they would like to play by typing the number related to it. The program will then go through the dictionary and ask the users questions randomly in the category they inputted using the random library. Their input will then be checked against the correct answers. If the user is wrong, the program will say they they were incorrect and reveal the true answer. If they were correct, they are celebrated with a star to add enticing visuals. The program keeps track of the number of correct and incorrect answers. If the player exceeds a predefined number of incorrect answers, the game will end. The program can also end if the user types “stop”. If the player needs a hint, they can type “?” and the program will reveal to them the first letter of the answer. They would then be granted a second chance at guessing the answer. This program can be used for general knowledge quizzes. It can also be a fun game to learn capitals, memorize course material or just a fun educational game. By using file handling, dictionaries and functions, the code is organized and efficient. The program handles empty input, invalid user responses to ensure a smooth run of the program. Users can create their own question files to match specific topics of interest to them or material for their classes, allowing for a highly customizable experience. The program gives feedback to the users and encouraging words. The program tracks not only the latest score but maintains a record for each player. Files are used to store the number of correct answers for each player and their username.
